---
layout: post
title: iXLink Pricelist Exchange
thumb: ixlink.png
---

iXLink mission was to facilitate the exchange of price lists between telecom providers. I had a great time working with an amazing team of people in the early days of the system.

As you may know, Verizon - for example - does not own all the cables and network between your home and your friend in London. When you place a call, Verizon needs to identify how to most effectively route your call.
Companies do this using a variety of factors (price, quality, etc.). One of the industry's challange was that telecom providers used mostly Microsoft Excel spreadsheets to exchange pricing information, to my surprise at the time.

Now, imagine hundreds of companies exchanging Excel files and each of them with a different format.

To fulfill its mission, iXLink created a standard for companies to exchange price lists. We did create an xml schema to represent any pricelist, but forcing a new standard to a whole industry used to Excel is extremely challenging especially if you don’t have the support of a large Consortium. 

To soften this transition we built a sophisticated system to define commonalities between price lists and effectively convert them from their input Excel files into an iXLink Price-List XML.

In addition to these converters, we built interfaces to allow companies to select their business partners and view all price lists that had been transmitted. Finally, a deep integration to Telarix's iXTools system was created. iXTools manages accounts, routing and reporting on some of the largest telecom companies in the world.
